Create libplanet-0.8.eng.md (#72)
planetarium/snack.planetarium.dev: content/posts/2020/02/libplanet-0.8.eng.md

---
title: Libplanet 0.8 Released
date: 2020-02-05
authors: [chanhyuck.ko, hong.minhee]
translators: [kidon.seo]
---

Hello All.

Our team has released the eighth minor version of [Libplanet], [Version 0.8][0.8.0].

Libplanet is a common library that solves game implementation problems such as P2P communication and data synchronization when creating online multiplayer games that run on distributed P2P.

With the new version updated in nearly three months, there have been many improvements in version 0.8 including storage optimization. This article will cover major changes of Version 0.8.

[Libplanet]: https://libplanet.io/
[0.8.0]: https://github.com/planetarium/libplanet/releases/tag/0.8.0

Genesis Block Anticipation 
--------------------------

> `BlockChain<T>` now anticipates a particular Genesis block. This is to prevent mistakes such as multiple games attempting to connect to the wrong network. Mistakes like above might occur because although games made from Libplanet forms separate networks, Libplanet behaves in a type of metaprotocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`BlockChain<T>` now anticipates a particular genesis block. This is to prevent mistakes such as multiple games attempting to connect to the wrong network. Mistakes like above might occur because although games made from Libplanet forms separate networks, Libplanet behaves in a type of metaprotocol.
```

혹시 이렇게 “Genesis”를 대문자로 시작하는 특별한 의도가 있는 건가요? 블록체인 쪽에서는 genesis block이라는 용어가 흔하게 쓰여서 그냥 소문자로 쓴 것만 봤거든요. 《구약》의 〈창세기〉와도 관련이 없어서 그냥 소문자로 써도 되지 않을까 싶습니다.

Author: 네 일반적으로 genesis를 대문자로 쓰는데 창세기와 관련 없으니 소문자로 쓰는게 맞는 것 같습니다.

> `BlockChain<T>` now anticipates a particular genesis block. This is to prevent mistakes such as multiple games attempting to connect to the wrong network. Mistakes like above might occur because although games made from Libplanet forms separate networks, Libplanet behaves in a type of metaprotocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`BlockChain<T>` now anticipates a particular genesis block. This is to prevent mistakes such as multiple games attempting to connect to the wrong network. Mistakes like above might occur because although games made from Libplanet form separate networks, Libplanet behaves in a type of metaprotocol.
```

> [`BlockChain<T>()` Creator][BlockChain{T}()] takes the `Block<T>` object as a factor and the block becomes the first block. If Genesis block contained in `IStore` and the Genesis block expected by the creator of `BlockChain<T>()` do not match, [`InvalidGenesisBlockException`][InvalidGenesisBlockException] will occur.

Reviewer: 저희가 스낵에서 “생성자”라고 쓰면 대개는 “[constructor]”의 번역어입니다.

```suggestion
[`BlockChain<T>()` constructor][BlockChain{T}()] takes the `Block<T>` object as a factor and the block becomes the first block. If genesis block contained in `IStore` and the genesis block expected by the `BlockChain<T>()` constructor do not match, [`InvalidGenesisBlockException`][InvalidGenesisBlockException] will occur.
```

[constructor]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constructor_(object-oriented_programming)

> Currently, the creator receives the entire `Block<T>` object, but [the next version will have the creator only receive the Genesis block hash and the actual block content to be received from other nodes on the network.][#769]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the constructor receives the entire `Block<T>` object, but [the next version will have the creator only receive the Genesis block hash and the actual block content to be received from other nodes on the network.][#769]
```

[BlockChain{T}()]: https://docs.libplanet.io/0.8.0/api/Libplanet.Blockchain.BlockChain-1.html#Libplanet_Blockchain_BlockChain_1__ctor_Libplanet_Blockchain_Policies_IBlockPolicy__0__Libplanet_Store_IStore_Libplanet_Blocks_Block__0__
[InvalidGenesisBlockException]: https://docs.libplanet.io/0.8.0/api/Libplanet.Blocks.InvalidGenesisBlockException.html
[#769]: https://github.com/planetarium/libplanet/pull/769

[`DefaultStore`][DefaultStore] ← `LiteDBStore`
----------------------------------------------

> The built-in `IStore` implementation of `LiteDBStore` has been removed and [`DefaultStore`][DefaultStore] has replaced it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`LiteDBStore`, a built-in `IStore` implementation, has been removed and [`DefaultStore`][DefaultStore] has replaced it.
```

> The reason for this change is that a single LiteDB file is no longer saved, but a directory that contains multiple formats.

Reviewer: 이 부분이 원래 전하려는 말은 “하나의 LiteDB 파일이 사라졌다”라기 보다는 (풀어서 설명하자면) “LiteDB 파일 하나로만 구성됐었는데 이제는 파일이 하나가 아니라 여러개고, 그 파일들이 모두 LiteDB 형식인 것도 아니고 다른 형식도 섞이게 됐다”라는 뜻이었습니다. 혹시 그런 의도를 좀 살릴 수 있을까요?

Author: "The reason for this replacement is that while only LiteDB files were stored in a directory before, more files with multiple formats have been added to be stored from this version" 
이런 느낌은 어떠신가요?

Reviewer: 좀더 의도에 가까워졌는데, 변경 전에는 디렉터리가 아예 없고 그냥 파일 하나 달랑 있었어서, 그것도 드러낼 수 있을까요? 예전에는 대충

```
data.ldb
```

이런 느낌이었다면, 이제는 이렇게 됐습니다.

```
data
├── blocks.ldb
├── tx.ldb
├── ...
└── ...
```

Reviewer: 좋은 것 같습니다!

Another reason was our intention to remove implementation details from the name, with efforts to optimize the repository until the 1.0.0 release.

> In addition, a `compress` option has been created in the [`DefaultStore()` Creator][DefaultStore()] to reduce storage space. Although the option is still turned off by default in this version, the default will be change to `true` in the next version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, a `compress` option has been created in the [`DefaultStore()` constructor][DefaultStore()] to reduce storage space. Although the option is still turned off by default in this version, the default will be change to `true` in the next version.
```

> In addition, a `compress` option has been created in the [`DefaultStore()` constructor][DefaultStore()] to reduce storage space. Although the option is still turned off by default in this version, the default will be change to `true` in the next version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition, a `compress` option has been created in the [`DefaultStore()` constructor][DefaultStore()] to reduce storage space. Although the option is still turned off by default in this version, the default will be changed to `true` in the next version.
```

[DefaultStore]: https://docs.libplanet.io/master/api/Libplanet.Store.DefaultStore.html
[DefaultStore()]: https://docs.libplanet.io/master/api/Libplanet.Store.DefaultStore.html#Libplanet_Store_DefaultStore__ctor_System_String_System_Boolean_System_Boolean_System_Int32_System_Int32_System_Int32_System_Int32_System_Boolean_System_Boolean_

[`ICryptoBackend`][ICryptoBackend]
----------------------------------

To be used on a variety of platforms, Libplanet has been using a cryptographic library written in pure C#, [Bouncy Castle]. Although pure C# implementations are a great advantage in portability, they serve as a penalty in performance.

In the new version, an abstraction layer called [`ICryptoBackend`][ICryptoBackend] has been added to allow game developers to choose between portability and performance. While the default implementation, [`DefaultCryptoBackend`][DefaultCryptoBackend], is still internally dependent on Bouncy Castle, game developers can achieve performance benefits by implementing the `ICryptoBackend` interface appropriately, depending on the game’s target platform.

> For example, if you want Libplanet to use `MyCryptoBackend` class that implements `ICryptoBackend`, you can overwrite [`CryptoConfig.CryptoBackend` Attribute][CryptoConfig.CryptoBackend] as shown below.

Reviewer: 프로그래밍 쪽에서 쓰이는 “property”와 “attribute”라는 두 용어가 한국어로는 모두 “속성” 하나로 번역하다보니 정보가 손실되어서 영어로 되돌릴 때 어느 쪽을 말하는지 알 수가 없어지는 문제가 있네요…

```suggestion
For example, if you want Libplanet to use `MyCryptoBackend` class that implements `ICryptoBackend`, you can overwrite [`CryptoConfig.CryptoBackend` property][CryptoConfig.CryptoBackend] as shown below.
```

Author: 앞으로 속성은 "property"로 일관되게 번역하죠

~~~~ csharp
CryptoConfig.CryptoBackend = new MyCryptoBackend();
~~~~

In the case of [Nine Chronicles], a game currently being developed by our team, we have also improved game performance by implementing `ICryptoBackend`  interface that calls [secp256k1] C library unveiled in the Bitcoin project.

[Bouncy Castle]: http://www.bouncycastle.org/csharp/
[ICryptoBackend]: https://docs.libplanet.io/0.8.0/api/Libplanet.Crypto.ICryptoBackend.html
[DefaultCryptoBackend]: https://docs.libplanet.io/0.8.0/api/Libplanet.Crypto.DefaultCryptoBackend.html
[CryptoConfig.CryptoBackend]: https://docs.libplanet.io/0.8.0/api/Libplanet.Crypto.CryptoConfig.html#Libplanet_Crypto_CryptoConfig_CryptoBackend
[secp256k1]: https://github.com/bitcoin-core/secp256k1

Routing Table Improvement
-------------------------

> Because Libplanet uses [Distributed Hash Table method][DHT] to communicate with other peers, it stores information about the peers associated with itself on the routing table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because Libplanet uses [<abbr title="distributed hash table">DHT</abbr>][DHT] to communicate with other peers, it stores information about the peers associated with itself on the routing table.
```

Traditionally, this routing table only stored the most recent communication points with that peer. But now, we've also added a communication delay info to give you more information about the network environment.

> Developers can use the newly added [`Swarm<T>.CheckAllPeersAsync()` Method][Swarm{T}.CheckAllPeersAsync()] to update peers stored on routing tables, and access [`Swarm<T>.Peers` Attribute][Swarm{T}.Peers] from outside Libplanet to identify the peers currently on its routing tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developers can use the newly added [`Swarm<T>.CheckAllPeersAsync()` method][Swarm{T}.CheckAllPeersAsync()] to update peers stored on routing tables, and access [`Swarm<T>.Peers` property][Swarm{T}.Peers] from outside Libplanet to identify the peers currently on its routing tables.
```

[DHT]: {{< ref "../../2019/09/kademlia/" >}}
[Swarm{T}.CheckAllPeersAsync()]: https://docs.libplanet.io/0.8.0/api/Libplanet.Net.Swarm-1.html#Libplanet_Net_Swarm_1_CheckAllPeersAsync_System_Nullable_TimeSpan__CancellationToken_

> [Swarm{T}.Peers]: https://docs.libplanet.io/0.8.0/api/Libplanet.Net.Swarm-1.html#Libplanet_Net_Swarm_1_Peers

Author: 이 부분은 왜 preview에서 이상하게 보이는지 잘 모르겠네요...

Reviewer: 아 아마 이 부분은 한국어판도 미리보기에서는 깨져서 나오고 있을 걸요… 제대로 보려면 `hugo serve` 명령어로 띄워서 봐야 합니다. Hugo 전용 문법을 쓰고 있어서요

Author: 아 저번에 봤던 이슈네요. 감사합니다!

Changed Block Structure and Serialization 
-----------------------------------------

A block that is a component of the blockchain can be divided into two parts: the transactions and the metadata excluding the transactions. 

As with many blockchain projects, we've defined the part minus the transactions as block headers, and we are now able to compute more efficiently than ever before by using a block header that contains more information compared to only using block hash for computation.

In addition, when serializing blocks and transactions, field keys are shortened and the empty fields are completely excluded, making the serialized expression lighter.

> Document Improvement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Documentation Improvement
```

저도 이제까지 크게 의식한 적은 없는데, 프로그래밍 쪽에서는 document라는 말 대신 주로 documentation 또는 줄여서 docs라고 쓰는 것 같습니다. 참고: <https://ell.stackexchange.com/questions/16580/difference-between-document-and-documentation>.

--------------------

> Although not a change to the library itself, there have been improvements in the design of the [Document Website][docs] and a new [Overview][overview] document written by Swen Mun have been added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although not a change to the library itself, there have been improvements in the design of the [docs website][docs] and a new [Overview][overview] document written by Swen Mun have been added.
```

> Although not a change to the library itself, there have been improvements in the design of the [docs website][docs] and a new [Overview][overview] document written by Swen Mun have been added.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although not a change to the library itself, there have been improvements in the design of the [docs website][docs] and a new [Overview][overview] document written by Swen Mun has been added.
```

For example, if you want Libplanet to use `MyCryptoBackend` class that implements `ICryptoBackend`, you can overwrite [`CryptoConfig.CryptoBackend` Attribute][CryptoConfig.CryptoBackend] as shown below.

~~~~ csharp
CryptoConfig.CryptoBackend = new MyCryptoBackend();
~~~~

In the case of [Nine Chronicles], a game currently being developed by our team, we have also improved game performance by implementing `ICryptoBackend`  interface that calls [secp256k1] C library unveiled in the Bitcoin project.

[Bouncy Castle]: http://www.bouncycastle.org/csharp/
[ICryptoBackend]: https://docs.libplanet.io/0.8.0/api/Libplanet.Crypto.ICryptoBackend.html
[DefaultCryptoBackend]: https://docs.libplanet.io/0.8.0/api/Libplanet.Crypto.DefaultCryptoBackend.html
[CryptoConfig.CryptoBackend]: https://docs.libplanet.io/0.8.0/api/Libplanet.Crypto.CryptoConfig.html#Libplanet_Crypto_CryptoConfig_CryptoBackend
[secp256k1]: https://github.com/bitcoin-core/secp256k1

Routing Table Improvement
-------------------------

Because Libplanet uses [Distributed Hash Table method][DHT] to communicate with other peers, it stores information about the peers associated with itself on the routing table.

> Traditionally, this routing table only stored the most recent communication points with that peer. But now, we added a communication delay with that peer to give you more information about the network environment.

Reviewer 3: 이 문장의 `we added a communication delay` 이 부분이 딜레이를 추가했다는 뉘앙스로 보일 수 있을 것 같은데, 딜레이에 대한 정보를 추가했다는 느낌이 더 강하게 나면 좋을 거 같아요.

Author: "communication delay info" 로 변경하면 적절할 것 같습니다.

Developers can use the newly added [`Swarm<T>.CheckAllPeersAsync()` Method][Swarm{T}.CheckAllPeersAsync()] to update peers stored on routing tables, and access [`Swarm<T>.Peers` Attribute][Swarm{T}.Peers] from outside Libplanet to identify the peers currently on its routing tables.

[DHT]: {{< ref "../../2019/09/kademlia/" >}}
[Swarm{T}.CheckAllPeersAsync()]: https://docs.libplanet.io/0.8.0/api/Libplanet.Net.Swarm-1.html#Libplanet_Net_Swarm_1_CheckAllPeersAsync_System_Nullable_TimeSpan__CancellationToken_
[Swarm{T}.Peers]: https://docs.libplanet.io/0.8.0/api/Libplanet.Net.Swarm-1.html#Libplanet_Net_Swarm_1_Peers

Changed Block Structure and Serialization 
-----------------------------------------

> A block that is a component of the blockchain can be divided into two parts: the transaction and the metadata excluding the transaction. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A block that is a component of the blockchain can be divided into two parts: the transactions and the metadata excluding the transactions. 
```
단일 트랜잭션이 아니라 여러 개의 트랜잭션이 들어갈 수도 있어서 `s`를 붙이는 것이 맞지 않을까요? 영어에 많은 자신이 없어서 확신은 못하겠네요...

Author: 그런 의미면 s 붙이는게 맞습니다.

> As with many blockchain projects, we've defined the part minus the transaction as block headers, and we are now able to compute more efficiently than ever before by using a block header that contains more information compared to only using block hash for computation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As with many blockchain projects, we've defined the part minus the transactions as block headers, and we are now able to compute more efficiently than ever before by using a block header that contains more information compared to only using block hash for computation.
```
